# Functional specification of PE OpenAPI Models Library & Generator

PE OpenAPI Models Library & Generator will provide the implementation that will enable developers to use [DIF Presentation Exchange v1.0.0 specification](https://identity.foundation/presentation-exchange/) which is crucial for interoperability of different systems that [verifiers](https://identity.foundation/presentation-exchange/#terminology) and [holders](https://identity.foundation/presentation-exchange/#terminology) (e.g. wallets). 

This component will enable verifiers and holders systems (e.g. wallets) to create and understand models generated by each other in consistent way. These are some cases where one might use PE OpenAPI Models Library & Generator components, like for instance to create implementations in different programming languages.


##Table of contents

- [PE-OpenAPI specification](#pe-openapi-specification)
- [PE-OpenAPI Models Generator](#pe-openapi-models-generator)
- [PE-Models library](#pe-models-library)


#### PE-OpenAPI specification

DIF PE OpenAPI specifications is a set of OpenAPI 3 specification YAML files compatible with the Presentation Exchange specification. It can be used by 3rd parties directly to generate the models and SDKs for their own desired framework and programming language. It is being used to generate the Typescript models (see below) and Sphereon will use it to generate models and SDKs for Sphereon's PE-REST-API as well. 


#### PE-OpenAPI Models Generator

PE-OpenAPI Models Generator is a pre-configured component to generate the models from the above PE-OpenAPI v3 Specification YAML files. Developers who intend to integrate the DIF PE specification in their typescript/javascript systems can extend this project or follow the guide to make it part of their code-bases.


#### PE-Models library

The pe-models library is a pre-published ready to use `typescript` `node-module` that can be directly downloaded and installed from `npmjs.com`. This can be used in any javascript based projects to have a consistent structure of the models required in presentation exchange between verifier and holders of verifiable credentials.

The PE-Models library will also be used in the libraries desiring to validate and verify presentation definitions and submissions.

